Chocolate cake, The Chokey, Miss Honey, and of course countless, countless books – few children wouldn’t recognise the iconic story of Matilda, Roald Dahl’s fantastical character from his 1988 book of the same name. Then forever immortalised in the 1996 movie directed by Danny DeVito, everyone’s favourite magical bookworm was further brought to life by the Royal Shakespeare Company in 2010 as Matilda The Musical, which has won numerous awards — and has now arrived on the South African stage. Roald Dahl has long been celebrated as one of the world’s greatest children’s book authors, and Matilda is undeniably one of his best-known and best-loved tales. Following the story of an extraordinary little girl who, armed with a vivid imagination and a sharp mind, dares to take a stand and change her own destiny, it’s the kind of feel-good adventure that captures both children and adults alike. Adding to its appeal, the stage version was adapted by award-winning writer and  features original songs by the hilarious Australian comedian and musician, Tim Minchin. The South African production has director Matthew Warchus at its helm – a multiple Tony Award and Laurence Olivier Award winner, including a 2013 Tony Award for Best Director of a Musical for Matilda. Under his incredible direction is a proudly South African cast, including Bethany Dickson (most recently seen as Kathy Selden in Singin’ In The Rain) as Miss Honey, Ryan de Villiers (who here makes his musical theatre debut) as Miss Trunchbull, and Nompumelelo Mayiyane (with theatre credits including Rock Of Ages) as Mrs Phelps. The characters of Matilda’s parents, Mr and Mrs Wormwood, will be played by theatre favourites Stephen Jubber and Claire Taylor respectively, and Matilda herself is being shared by three young actresses: Kitty Harris, Morgan Santo, and Lilla Fleischmann. WATCH | The Trailer for Matilda The Musical There’s a reason this story has played to sold out audiences on London’s West End for seven years: clever, heart-warming, and full of fun, it’s musical theatre at its best, and makes for the perfect outing for the whole family. • 'Matilda The Musical' will run until December 2 at The Teatro at Montecasino in Johannesburg. Tickets at Computicket. This article was originally published in the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guide. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za