A stream of memes and jokes flooded social media after a stunning 2-0 defeat to South Korea condemned Die Mannschaft to their earliest exit in 80 years. "Don't mention the VAR," was a common refrain, while Brazilian media gleefully took their revenge for Brazil's 7-1 humiliation by Germany at the last World Cup in 2014. "AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA..." read a tweet from Fox Sports Brasil that ran to 272 characters. In dramatic scenes in Kazan, Kim Young-gwon's stoppage-time opener was ruled legitimate after intervention from the Video Assistant Referee, before Son Heung-min added the second goal minutes later. "Germany's fastest exit from Russia since 1943," posted one user, while another tweeted a picture of Germany towels reserving all the seats on an empty plane. Mexico fans were particularly delighted after South Korea's last-gasp win allowed them to qualify for the last 16 behind Group F winners Sweden - while Germany finished rock bottom. Aeromexico offered a 20% discount on flights to South Korea, tweeting an image of a plane with doctored "AeroCorea" livery and the slogan, "We love you Korea!" Ryanair tweeted a picture of an unhappy Germany fan, offering "Loew fares" - a reference to German coach Joachim Loew. One joke in German showed a supermarket check-out assistant asking Loew, "Do you collect points?" with the coach answering, "No." Making an unexpected exit? We have Löw fares on https://t.co/LTBSLn5QzB 🛫😀#GERKOR #WorldCup #GER pic.twitter.com/PTS4nZKNHR That's one brutal ad coup#worldcup #GermanyOut pic.twitter.com/suEagsd1Ve Meanwhile, England striker-turned-TV-presenter Gary Lineker revised his famous maxim that "Football is a simple game. Twenty-two men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans always win." "Football is a simple game," Lineker tweeted. "Twenty-two men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans no longer always win. Previous version is confined to history." Football is a simple game. Twenty-two men chase a ball for 90 minutes and at the end, the Germans no longer always win. Previous version is confined to history.