Recently revived by Maria Grazia Chiuri for the Dior A/W 2017/18 fashion show, the beret is fast becoming this season's must-have headwear. As well as being brought back to the forefront of fashion by several designers, the beret has been widely spotted off the catwalk — and not just on the heads of Economic Freedom Fighters. Indeed, it has been worn by everyone from celebs to the crowned heads of Europe. Bonang, Rihanna, Meghan Markle and Princess Charlene of Monaco are just some of the famous faces who have been snapped sporting berets. While the Frenchest of hats is now also the hippest, it's important to strike a balance when working a beret into your look, so as not to fall into the trap of clichés. Wanted Online shares some styling tips: Here's some inspiration from A-listers on how to wear a beret with style: A post shared by Bonang Matheba (@bonang_m) on Mar 16, 2018 at 5:26am PDT BONANG Queen B shows how a beret ups the chic factor of even the simplest outfit. In this case, a white Valentino tee and trousers in winter's trendiest hue: red. A post shared by 🦋 (@bellahadid) on Apr 8, 2018 at 6:57am PDT BELLA HADID Wearing a blonde wig while enjoying some downtime with friends, model Bella Hadid rocks a refreshed, loose-fitting beret, bringing a retro touch to her casual-chic look. A post shared by P E A R L 🔸 M O D I A D I E (@pearlmodiadie) on Mar 11, 2018 at 10:51am PDT The radio personality's red beret adds a touch of whimsy to her casual day look. A post shared by Cara Delevingne (@caradelevingne) on Feb 27, 2018 at 9:30am PST CARA DELEVINGNE Dressed head to toe in iconic pieces by Dior, the model caused a stir when she arrived at a recent fashion show in this masculine-meets-feminine outfit capped with a beret. A post shared by Kefilwe Mabote 🇿🇦 (@kefilwe_mabote) on Oct 25, 2017 at 2:08am PDT KEFILWE MABOTE Stylist Mabote shows just why she's an SA Style Award winner with this outfit. The navy beret, blazer and red lipstick are the embodiment of French chic, while the distressed jeans keep the look casual. A post shared by ♔Winnie Harlow♔ (@winnieharlow) on Feb 22, 2018 at 4:54am PST WINNIE HARLOW The Canadian model's bright red beret is a perfect match for the red details on her vinyl jacket, adding the finishing touch to a stylish and sexy look. • Additional reporting by staff reporter.