“I want to study further but where would I even find the time?” Sounds familiar?If you’ve considered going back to the books to move up the ranks in your career, or to secure a new opportunity, you’re probably guilty of this excuse. With the help of The Business School at Varsity College, a brand of The Independent Institute of Education (The IIE) registered as a private higher education provider with the Department of Higher Education and Training, you can now balance it all while you improve yourself professionally. Industry relevance is the key Based on your working world, The IIE’s short learning programmes (SLPs) paint a picture that represents industries in a modern context. The programmes are taught by experienced lecturers. Whether it’s finance, management, admin or legal, you’ll acquire the skills and knowledge that can make a big difference in your career. Time is money In today’s busy world, shorter programmes offer a clear pathway to success. That’s why IIE SLPs are never longer than nine months, with the shortest duration being 17 weeks. This gives you the perfect opportunity to upskill, on a part-time basis, in the quickest time possible. As an added benefit, lectures are held in the evenings or on weekends so that they don’t interfere with your working hours. Stand out from the crowd Competition in the job market can be fierce. These days, you need to do all you can to get noticed and get ahead. With your CV acting as that first impression, your skills and qualifications do the talking before you do. Don’t be overlooked; show them that you’re serious about your career by upskilling with an IIE SLP. How far do you want to go? Goals are nothing without a fool-proof plan of action to help you achieve them. The IIE’s Business School at Varsity College sees your success as its own. For more on the range of IIE SLPs that will help you get to the top, visit https://www.thebusinessschool.co.za/programmes/short-learning This article was paid for by The IIE's Business School.