Even if you skip eyeshadow application in the morning, a few lashings of mascara for a pair of wide-awake eyes is a must. Look for a great wand and multi-purpose formulation rather than a luxury brand to get more bang for your buck. A fuller bristle wand that tapers at the end to grab those tiny inner lashes is best at coating the lashes for a voluminous set. Tip: Avoid applying mascara to your lower lashes to prevent having panda eyes by lunch time. Try: WBeauty 3-in-1 Mascara in Black, R160. Cut the maths out of concealing and correcting by adding an illuminating eye concealer to your office beauty bag. Dab along the eye area with your ring finger in a triangular formation to conceal dark circles and brighten the eyes. Tip: Double your cream concealer's work rate by dabbing a little on the brow bone, eyelid and bridge of the nose to create a subtle, non-shimmery highlight. Try: Smashbox Photo Op Under Eye Brightener, R295. Give your brows a presence of their own by ensuring they are always immaculately groomed. A brow that is natural and defined is the name of the game so use a pigmented brow gel or waxy powder to lightly fill brows and shape. Tip: Dust the brows with a little bit of translucent powder before applying a brow gel to add volume and texture. Try: Catrice Eyebrow Filler Perfecting and Shaping Gel, R70. Sport a tonal flush of colour over the face to create a youthful and instantly awake look. Opt for colours that are close to the natural blush tones of the skin, such as pink, coral or taupe. Tap onto the lids, cheeks, nose and lips until sheer and almost invisible. Tip: Use a cream blush instead of a powder to give skin a more dewy and luminous finish. Try: Revlon Insta-Blush in Berry Kiss, R239. Be prepared for anything by packing an all-in-one balm into your handbag. Whether you need to soothe chapped lips before a meeting, neaten up eyebrows or refresh powder makeup before an evening event, the motto is easy: just dab on and go. Tip: Apply balm to the eyelids and temples then swipe on a bold lipstick for an easy office to party look. Try: Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream Skin Protectant, R285. Double duty (even triple duty) products are life savers when prepping for busy days. When it comes to coverage, look for foundations that carry an SPF, serum quality, concealer or even a blurring effect to keep your skincare routine intact without skin feeling heavy. Tip: Mix in a drop of dry facial oil to your foundation before applying to allow the product to glide on smoothly for an effortless, blended finish. Try: Max Factor Ageless Elixir Miracle Foundation, R180.