Well-heeled celebrities descended on the Greyville Racecourse for the 2018 Vodacom Durban July this weekend. Now 'It is Time' to see how well these A-listers interpreted this year's race day fashion theme. The quirky poem on the Durban July website invited racegoers to adopt a timeless dress code, or look to the face of a watch for the inspiration for their outfits. Here's which celebrities nailed it, and which ones should turn back the clock and rethink their wardrobe choices. The TV personality looked confident, sexy and chic in a high-waisted pants suit with an edge. Her button-less suit blazer was beautifully cut and the pale metallic gold fabric flattered her skin tone to perfection. A post shared by K Naomi Noinyane 🇿🇦 (@knaomin) on Jul 8, 2018 at 3:56am PDT A post shared by K Naomi Noinyane 🇿🇦 (@knaomin) on Jul 7, 2018 at 7:31am PDT There's only word to describe this model's Durban July outfit: dreamy. Designed by Vanessa Gounden of D’Oré, her flowy, one-shoulder dress is a beautiful fusion of fashion and art. A post shared by Mrs Sarah Langa Mackay (@sarahlanga) on Jul 8, 2018 at 1:04am PDT A post shared by Mrs Sarah Langa Mackay (@sarahlanga) on Jul 7, 2018 at 4:07pm PDT Miss SA 2018 looked elegant in a backless, ombre jumpsuit by Galluzzi e Gini. It would have been better if she had left her yellow gloves by the sink when she finished washing the dishes though. We loved the graphic nature of the actress' striking monochrome gown, but we could have done without the random feathers poking out the ends of her sleeves. The length could also have done with some adjustment — the dress looks like it's swamping her a bit. A post shared by Nomzamo Mbatha 🇿🇦 (@nomzamo_m) on Jul 8, 2018 at 3:31am PDT Mrs Jones sadly missed the mark. Ruffles, patchwork, beading, a feathered clock hat ... there's just too much going on with her outfit which was designed by Gert-Johan Coetzee. A post shared by Minnie (@minniedlamini) on Jul 7, 2018 at 8:30am PDT Gold body paint, sheep skins, sunglasses .... you'd have to be living in a different dimension to pull this look off. At least the TV presenter had a blast creating her own action film for Insta on race day. A post shared by Dineo Ranaka (@dineoranaka) on Jul 7, 2018 at 11:59am PDT A post shared by Dineo Ranaka (@dineoranaka) on Jul 7, 2018 at 12:35pm PDT