An American institution's customised programmes are regarded as the best in business in South Africa‚ but three local universities have managed to make the top 100 cut on the esteemed UK Financial Times 2018 Executive Education ranking. Duke Corporate Education leads the pack in SA‚ coming in 2nd for its customised courses. The institution‚ operating in US‚ UK‚ Singapore and Africa‚ states its programmes span industries including financial‚ government‚ automotive‚ and extraction. The University of Pretoria’s Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS) scores highest amongst the home-grown institutions‚ being placed 51st for customised programmes tailor-made for corporate customers and 45th for its open-enrollment courses‚ designed for leadership within organisations. The only other SA institution featured on both lists is the University of Stellenbosch Business School‚ which is scored 62nd for open enrollment and 89th for customised offerings. However‚ the University of Cape Town Graduate School of Business is ranked higher - 67th - on the scoring of customised programmes. The annual FT ranking is based on the satisfaction levels of corporate clients and individual participants. With its combined ranking of 42‚ GIBS Dean‚ Professor Nicola Kleyn‚ said: “This ranking amplifies that GIBS is indeed a global centre of excellence that offers state-of-the-art education. A collective effort from our faculty and programme execution team ensures that we keep delivering value to our clients.” Lerato Mahlasela‚ Director: Custom Programmes at GIBS‚ said: “We work hard to ensure we deliver quality programmes that are in line with our customer needs. This ranking is a clear indication that our executive education programmes are in line with market expectations.” Overall‚ Switzerland’s IMD and Iese Business School of Spain retained their grip on the top spots in the FT’s twin rankings of executive education programmes in 2018. The Lausanne school is number one for open-enrollment programmes while its Barcelona rival heads the table of customised courses. See the report here.